README.md, before:


## Short introduction

Git is a distributed Version Control System  VCS tool used to versioning, collaboration of a project

## Some usefull git commands

 - `git init`                           // This command initialize folder as a git repository
 - `git status`                         // check current status including in which branch currently the HEAD pointing to and the information of changes to be staged
 - `git add .`                          // start tracking changes in all the files (add to staging area)
 - `git add [filename]`                 // only add specific file to staging area
 - `git reset`                          // only reset from staged to unstage all files
 - `git reset [filename]`               // only reset specific file but not remove modifications of file
 - `git reset --hard`                   // reset from staged to unstaged also remove modifications from all files
 - `git checkout HEAD [filename]`       // remove modifications of specific file before commit in stage/unstage
 - `git commit -m "[message]"`          // commit to local repository
 - `git push`                           // push changes to the upstream remote repository (best practice is to use local repo name and branch name **e.g git push origin main**)
 - `git fetch`                          // fetch the changes from remote repository but not merge with local repository.
 - `git merge`                          // merge the fetched changes *(from command **git fetch**)* to local 
repository.
 - `git pull`                           // fetch and merge the changes from the upstream remote to local repository (best practice is to use local repo name and branch name **e.g git pull origin main**) (to pull another branch present in remote but not in local then use this **git pull origin (remote-branch-name)** and checkout into it)
 - `git branch -M [branch-name]`        // change active/working branch name **e.g git branch -M main**
 - `git remote add [set-repo-name] [url]`   // connect local repo to remote repo **e.g git remote add origin (link)**
 - `git remote -v`                      // show the remotely connected repo url to local repo
 - `git push -u [repo-name] [branch-name]` // push all local commits to specific branch of remote repo *(here -u flag create upstream so that to use only git push command without mentioning repo/branch name worth noting that here (repo-name) is not the actual name of remote repo and if branch doesn't exist on remote then it will create another branch of this name on remote repo)*
 - `git remote show`                    // display the locel name of connected repo
 - `git remote show [repo-name]`        // show the status of remote repo **e.g git remote show origin**

### To undo/revert commits

 - `git reset --hard [commit-hash]`     // to roll back upto specified commit hash (commit includes changes accross multiple files will be roll backed from commit history/log)
 - `git revert [commit-hash]`           // it will only remove the applied changes/affect by a specific commit *(it actually add another commit to revert changes and that commit is a part of history/log)*

## Branches in git

To work in a same repository but in different context/module/features in a team or even individually then creating branches are helpful. Each git repository contains at least the one branch master/main. 

- `git branch` OR `git branch --list`   // display a list of branches
- `git branch -v`                       // display a list of branches with additional detail
- `git branch [branch-name]`            //create new branch 
- `git checkout [branch-name]`          //switch branch
- `git checkout -b [branch-name]`       // create and switch to the newly created branch
- `git branch --delete [branch-name]`   //delete local branch (--delete OR -d)
- `git branch -dr [repo-name]/[branch-name]`        //delete locally available remote branch (**e.g git branch -dr origin/test**)
- `git push origin --delete [branch-name]`   //delete remote branch (remember **origin** is a local repo-name)
- `git merge [branch-name]`             //merge changes of **(branch-name)** into the working/active branch

#### Short live / Long live Branches

In short live branches where we need to work on a small task of specific feature where we complete task merge into other branch and remove that branch.
In Long live branches *e.g production, development, testing etc* these branches use in lon run. 

## Additional Commands

- `git config --global user.name "[username]"` // setup username
- `git config --global user.name`              // display the setuped username
- `git config --global user.email "[email]"`   // setup email
- `git config --global user.email`             // display the setuped username
- `git log`                                    // check the history of commits
- `git log [branch-name-1..branch-name-2]`     // display difference of commits *(commits that are in "branch-name-2" but not in "branch-name-1")*
- `git log [repo-name]/[branch-name]`          // display commit history of specific branch of remote repo

## Conflict in git

conflict happens when you try to merge two branches and changes occur at same file on the same line.
To resolve conflict you must review it to keep both changes or changes of any specific branch, the easy way to the change through UI tool.

## Stash in git

To save changes temporarily if you don't want to commit.

- `git stash` OR `git stash save [provide-name]` // save changes temporarily to clipboard
- `git stash list`                               // show list of available stash
- `git stash apply [stash-name]`                 // apply the stash and keep that in the stash list **e.g git stash apply stash@{0}** *(here stash-name is not the name that you suggest to save)*
- `git stash clear`                              // clear all the stashes
- `git stash pop`                                // pop the last stash from list *(also remove from stash list)*
- `git stash drop [stash-name]`                  // drop and remove the stash **(e.g git stash drop stash@{0})**

## Forking in github

Remember forking is a feature of Github. It clone/copy the repository into your online github account, from there you can clone into your local repostiory; do changes and can push the changes into the copy of your git hub repository and from there you can create **pull request** for the owner to merge the changes into the origional repository *(now it is upto the owner of the repository to merge the changes or not into the original)*

> Your github forked copy could be behind from owners copy for that you can connect with owner copy as well to pull the changes from CLI. *(one way is that you can sync fork from github and then pull that changes into your local repo)*

- `git remote add upstream [owners-copy-link]` // ('upstream' is a conventional name working with forked remote repos and 'origin' of your remote repos)
- `git pull upstream [branch-name]`

## .gitignore

Those files and folder that you might want git don't see; create file with extension **.gitignore** and write it in that file. Example below is an specifying of ignoring some files and folder

 - /folder-name/
 - *.txt 
 - *.mp4

Commit message:

reset commit from remote repo

README.md, after:


## Short introduction

Git is a distributed Version Control System  VCS tool used to versioning, collaboration of a project

## Some usefull git commands

 - `git init`                           // This command initialize folder as a git repository
 - `git status`                         // check current status including in which branch currently the HEAD pointing to and the information of changes to be staged
 - `git add .`                          // start tracking changes in all the files (add to staging area)
 - `git add [filename]`                 // only add specific file to staging area
 - `git reset`                          // only reset from staged to unstage all files
 - `git reset [filename]`               // only reset specific file but not remove modifications of file
 - `git reset --hard`                   // reset from staged to unstaged also remove modifications from all files
 - `git checkout HEAD [filename]`       // remove modifications of specific file before commit in stage/unstage
 - `git commit -m "[message]"`          // commit to local repository
 - `git push`                           // push changes to the upstream remote repository (best practice is to use local repo name and branch name **e.g git push origin main**)
 - `git fetch`                          // fetch the changes from remote repository but not merge with local repository.
 - `git merge`                          // merge the fetched changes *(from command **git fetch**)* to local 
repository.
 - `git pull`                           // fetch and merge the changes from the upstream remote to local repository (best practice is to use local repo name and branch name **e.g git pull origin main**) (to pull another branch present in remote but not in local then use this **git pull origin (remote-branch-name)** and checkout into it)
 - `git branch -M [branch-name]`        // change active/working branch name **e.g git branch -M main**
 - `git remote add [set-repo-name] [url]`   // connect local repo to remote repo **e.g git remote add origin (link)**
 - `git remote -v`                      // show the remotely connected repo url to local repo
 - `git push -u [repo-name] [branch-name]` // push all local commits to specific branch of remote repo *(here -u flag create upstream so that to use only git push command without mentioning repo/branch name worth noting that here (repo-name) is not the actual name of remote repo and if branch doesn't exist on remote then it will create another branch of this name on remote repo)*
 - `git remote show`                    // display the locel name of connected repo
 - `git remote show [repo-name]`        // show the status of remote repo **e.g git remote show origin**

### To undo/revert commits

 - `git reset --hard [commit-hash]`     // to roll back upto specified commit hash to local repo(commit includes changes accross multiple files will be roll backed from commit history/log)
 - `git revert [commit-hash]`           // it will only remove the applied changes/affect by a specific commit *(it actually add another commit to revert changes and that commit is a part of history/log)*
 - `git push -f origin main`            // rolled back commit from remote rep ( affect of rolled back only available to local relo, you need to run this command to roll back commit from remote repo too)

## Branches in git

To work in a same repository but in different context/module/features in a team or even individually then creating branches are helpful. Each git repository contains at least the one branch master/main. 

- `git branch` OR `git branch --list`   // display a list of branches
- `git branch -v`                       // display a list of branches with additional detail
- `git branch [branch-name]`            //create new branch 
- `git checkout [branch-name]`          //switch branch
- `git checkout -b [branch-name]`       // create and switch to the newly created branch
- `git branch --delete [branch-name]`   //delete local branch (--delete OR -d)
- `git branch -dr [repo-name]/[branch-name]`        //delete locally available remote branch (**e.g git branch -dr origin/test**)
- `git push origin --delete [branch-name]`   //delete remote branch (remember **origin** is a local repo-name)
- `git merge [branch-name]`             //merge changes of **(branch-name)** into the working/active branch

#### Short live / Long live Branches

In short live branches where we need to work on a small task of specific feature where we complete task merge into other branch and remove that branch.
In Long live branches *e.g production, development, testing etc* these branches use in lon run. 

## Additional Commands

- `git config --global user.name "[username]"` // setup username
- `git config --global user.name`              // display the setuped username
- `git config --global user.email "[email]"`   // setup email
- `git config --global user.email`             // display the setuped username
- `git log`                                    // check the history of commits
- `git log [branch-name-1..branch-name-2]`     // display difference of commits *(commits that are in "branch-name-2" but not in "branch-name-1")*
- `git log [repo-name]/[branch-name]`          // display commit history of specific branch of remote repo

## Conflict in git

conflict happens when you try to merge two branches and changes occur at same file on the same line.
To resolve conflict you must review it to keep both changes or changes of any specific branch, the easy way to the change through UI tool.

## Stash in git

To save changes temporarily if you don't want to commit.

- `git stash` OR `git stash save [provide-name]` // save changes temporarily to clipboard
- `git stash list`                               // show list of available stash
- `git stash apply [stash-name]`                 // apply the stash and keep that in the stash list **e.g git stash apply stash@{0}** *(here stash-name is not the name that you suggest to save)*
- `git stash clear`                              // clear all the stashes
- `git stash pop`                                // pop the last stash from list *(also remove from stash list)*
- `git stash drop [stash-name]`                  // drop and remove the stash **(e.g git stash drop stash@{0})**

## Forking in github

Remember forking is a feature of Github. It clone/copy the repository into your online github account, from there you can clone into your local repostiory; do changes and can push the changes into the copy of your git hub repository and from there you can create **pull request** for the owner to merge the changes into the origional repository *(now it is upto the owner of the repository to merge the changes or not into the original)*

> Your github forked copy could be behind from owners copy for that you can connect with owner copy as well to pull the changes from CLI. *(one way is that you can sync fork from github and then pull that changes into your local repo)*

- `git remote add upstream [owners-copy-link]` // ('upstream' is a conventional name working with forked remote repos and 'origin' of your remote repos)
- `git pull upstream [branch-name]`

## .gitignore

Those files and folder that you might want git don't see; create file with extension **.gitignore** and write it in that file. Example below is an specifying of ignoring some files and folder

 - /folder-name/
 - *.txt 
 - *.mp4
